50 sanun nun numu GRAMMAR.

ofialso ἦμα (dart) ἴημι (to throw)‚ verbal ἐτός, Dor. perf. ἕωκα, a

and θῆ-μα, dauri-s, Lat. fel-cdd.

(42) Such are the chief results of gradation. Its causes are
thoroughly understood, at any rate so far as the reduced grado
is concerned. Sanskrit‚ whioh has preserved better than any
other languege the original accentuation‚ shows by numerous
changes of secent, suoh as coni iouds=Gh εἴ-μι ἰ’-μεν, that the
normal form of a syllable coincided with the secent, the re-
duced form with the absence of acoent3 and this is shown also
in Greek by such alternatione as λείπ-ειν herr-eir, πα-τέρ-(ι πα-τρ-ός,

ord-peu (Dor.) στῆναι (Ion.) and erdod-e. But sometimes, es the ’

accentuation was changed, the secent was shifted on to the very
syllable whioh had originally been reduced through the absence
of nocent, of. imds and ἴμεν; sometimes, on the other hand,
though the secent remeined unchanged‚ a reduced form was
elimiirated under the influenoe of a normal form closely ahin to
it (ap. the genitive φρεν-ός, the η vocalism of which is imitated
from thet of the accus. φρέν-α), so that an unaocented syllable
irregularly shows the normal form. In Latin, the accontuation
has beon greatly disturbed, and no longer coincides with the
vocalism, except accidentally.

In the deflected grado¹ likewise, such alternatione of aocent
and vocalism as appear in γέν-ος and adyto-ris, φρήν and ἅ-φρων,
seem to point toa particular result of proothnic accentuation.
But here the secent is not the only factor, and the extreme
complication of this class of phenomenahas hitherto prevented
them from being reduced to the form of laws. ⁸

 

