296 ornan nnn nsum omnnss.

ἢστον ‚loma-There is also an analogieal flexion ἔα ἔας ἕατι
(Herod.) and a thematised flexion (ἔον) in Homer.

Imperfect os ἄμμ-Βίης. lst: perdigna—Pina and dual:
ᾖμεν;*ἦι-μεν, ᾗτε, ᾖσαν, ᾗτον, ᾔτην, with no gradation.—Wealx

belongs to the plnperfect.¹—There are also in the poets three
thematised flexione, one with the augment, ἤϊον, another with
no augment, ei011‚and a third with weakened root, ἴον on the
model of snbj. ἴω.

Latin has nothing to be compared with these forms, except -
ernrn=2o (l), which in any case has been corrupted,² and, with
no gradation, pl. eremus. All its other imperfecte were ob·
tained by means of a special snffix, ibam, nobam? and the stem
of this suffix also does not vary, ihomas,

2. Thematic: Gk. {heyam-Lat. legebam.

H. Middla—l. The weak form always, ἐτιθέμην, ἔδιδόμην,
ἐδεικνύμην, eto, except in ἐκείμην like κεῖμαι, and the impf. mid.
(not Attio) of εἶμί, like the impf. ach, ἥμην ἢσο ἤμεθα, etc.-
Lat. dabar, with no morphological correlative elsewhere, and
naturally without gradation, pl. (labamur.

2. Thematic: Gk. &cydlina—Lat. legebar.

52. Other meede.

(281)¹ In Greek the moods of the presentare also those oi
the imperfect, since, on the augment being taken away, the
stem of the two tenses is exaotly the same. Latin alone has
developed an imperfect subjunctive, casem, legerem, (pass.
legerer, mid. sequerer), which has already been connected in
its origin with the IndoEuropean aorist subjunctive, used in
Greek as a future indicative.4

Snemon III.
2 ennena ΙΝ sna noons.

(282) The future indicative being always thematio,⁶ its per·
serra] and model inflexions are very simple. Moreover, the only

¹ (ll. infra 298, 3. ² Supra 149. ³ Supra 104 and 147.
⁴ Sapra 106 and 150. ⁵ Sapra 97.

 

